6-8 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish, I'm Phil
And I'm Becca
Have you ever done something physically challenging, Phil?
Like running a marathon maybe or climbing a mountain
I've climbed some mountains but only very little one so it wasn't that challenging
If physical challenges are something you enjoy, maybe you should try artistic swimming or synchronize swimming as it used to be called
A combination of dance and gymnastics with a difference
In artistic swimming athletes dance underwater while holding their breath
Did you say dance underwater?
Yes, swimmer's dance upside down in the water holding their breath
As we'll hear, it's an extremely demanding sport which requires discipline, stamina and years of training
As usual, we'll be learning some useful new words and phrases
And you can practice these with the quiz and work sheet on our website
That's BBCLearningEnglish.com
Great
But first Phil, I have a question for you
Artistics, swimming became an Olympic sport in 1984
But which country has won the most gold medal since then?
Is it A, Russia?
B, China, or C, the USA?
I think it's B, China
Well we'll reveal the correct answer later in this episode
Sylvia Solimoshiova from Sevacia is a European championship medalist
She's also the first artistic swimmer with over a million social media followers
After videos of how walking upside down underwater went viral
Here, she explains the different types of swimming dances
Called routines
To Dishyane, Navigayam, presenter of BBC World Service Program
The conversation
If you had to explain statistics swimming to someone who has never seen it
How would you describe it?
So I would say it depends if you're watching like a solo or a duet or a team routine
Because in solid there's one person in duet there's two people
And in team routines there can be eight people or ten people
And in the team routines there's a lot of lifts
And actually in the routines we are smiling
But we are hiding behind the smile because we are actually maybe dying
We don't have oxygen so we are smiling and people think that it's easy
When it's actually not
Artistic swimming routines are performed solo
Meaning by just one person or as a duet which means by two people
There are also team routines where one swimmer is lifted up out of the water
What all these routines have in common is that physically they are incredibly hard
Yes, artistic routines are done upside down underwater without oxygen
The swimmer's movements need to be as graceful as a ballet dancer
And above all it has to look effortless because judges award points for artistic expression
Sylvia says she hides behind a smile
An idea meaning to hide pain by presenting a happy outward appearance
To succeed at the top level of any sport requires a huge amount of dedication
Sylvia trains eight hours a day six days a week under the guidance of her coach
He's also her mum and a former artistic swimming champion herself
Here Sylvia discusses the sacrifices she's made to succeed with that she only never knew him
For BBC World Services the conversation
How easy was it?
Being trained and coached by your mum
I think it's good on one side
Because you can practice more at home
But on the other hand it's not sometimes good because you're training when you're at home when you're supposed to be like chilling
There's no respect for me in a way, I guess
Yeah, I didn't have time for anything else
Sylvia thinks they're a good and bad things about being coached by her mum
It's good because she can practice at home
But on the other hand it feels like she's training all the time
She uses the phrase on the other hand to show this contrasting opinion
What Sylvia really looks forward to is chilling
A slang word meaning relaxing or hanging out
For young athletes balancing sport with school and friends is difficult
And it's hard to get a respite from training
A respite is a temporary break from doing something difficult
Do you know what Becker?
I think I need a respite from all this talk about training
Now what was the answer to your question?
Ah yes, Phil, I asked you
Which country had won the most gold medals for artistic swimming since the beginning of the Olympic sport?
And I said I thought it was China
Well, you're very close to your graphically it is in fact Russia
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary we've learnt
Starts when we've solo, something done alone
And do you add something done by two people?
The idiom hide behind a smile means to hide painful feelings
By presenting a happy external appearance
The phrase on the other hand is used to introduce a contrasting opinion or statement
Chilling is slang for relaxing
And finally a respite is a break from doing something difficult
Once again, our six minutes are up
But if you'd like to practice the vocabulary you've learnt from this or any of our other episodes
Then head over to our website BBCLearningEnglish.com
For quizzes, pronunciation tips and much more
Thanks for joining us and goodbye for now
Bye